---
# Posts need to have the `post` layout
layout: post

# The title of your post
title: Anatomy of a C++ Program

# (Optional) Write a short (~150 characters) description of each blog post.
# This description is used to preview the page on search engines, social media, etc.
description: >
   The parts of a C++ program and how they work together

# (Optional) Link to an image that represents your blog post.
# The aspect ratio should be ~16:9.
image: /assets/img/default.jpg

# You can hide the description and/or image from the output
# (only visible to search engines) by setting:
# hide_description: true
# hide_image: true

# (Optional) Each post can have zero or more categories, and zero or more tags.
# The difference is that categories will be part of the URL, while tags will not.
# E.g. the URL of this post is <site.baseurl>/hydejack/2017/11/23/example-content/
categories: [CS 102]
tags: [C++, Programming Basics]
# If you want a category or tag to have its own page,
# check out `_featured_categories` and `_featured_tags` respectively.
---
These lecture notes cover the anatomy of a C++ program: the components of a C++ program and how they work together

## The `hello` program

The simple `hello.cpp` program from our [Getting Started notes]( https://ramnauth.github.io/cs%20102/2018/09/10/introduction/) has several interesting components. 

```cpp
// when executed, will print “Hello World” to the console. 
#include <iostream>
int main(){
	std::cout << “Hello World” << std::endl;
	return 0;
}
``` 

## Directives: `#include <iostream>`

In the first line, the file `iostream` is included into the current `.cpp` file. The hashtag (`#`) 
signals to a program called the *preprocessor* which reads through your source code, 
looking for all the lines that begin the with `#` symbol. The command `#include` tells the preprocessor "find the file `iostream`, read it, and place it here."
The angle brackets (`<>`) surrounding the file name tells the preprocessor to look in the usual places for this file. If your compiler is set up properly, all the `include` files are in one repository. 
For example, I'm using the MinGW C++ compiler which, by default, holds all my include files in `~C:\MinGW\include`.

The file `iostream` is used by `cout`, which writes to the console. The effect of `#include <iostream>` is to include the file `iostream` into this C++ program as if you typed it in yourself.

## Function Signatures: `int main()`

The actual program begins with the function `main()`. Every C++ program needs to have a `main()` function because when you execute your program, `main()` is called automatically. 

A function's **signature** is important because it defines the inputs and outputs of the function. In `int main()`, the first part `int` states that the `main()` function returns an interger value to the operating system.
This function achieves that because, at the bottom, it executes `return 0`. 

**Note:** The compiler will allow you to return other data types. However, for `main()`, the only legal return type is `int`. Generally, it is the informal convention to `return 0` to express that the program has ended without errors.

## The Function Body & Namespaces

All functions begin with an opening brace (`{`) and end with a closing brace (`}`). Everything in between the braces is considered to be part of that function.

`std::cout` is an important aspect of this `hello` program. Later in class you will learn about *classes* and *objects* which operate similar to their real-world counterparts. 
Nonetheless, `cout` and `cin` are used in C++ to handle input (such as user input from a keyboard) and output (such as printing to the console).

`cout` and `cin` objects provided by the *standard library* (`std`). A *library* is a collection of classes. Thus, the *standard library* is the standard collection of objects that comes with every C++ compiler. 

You tell the compiler that the `cout` object you can to use is part of the *standard library* by using the *namespace* specifier `std`. A real-world analogy for namespaces could be having to distinguish between several persons with the same first name. 
For example, there are many people with the name 'Rebecca', but perhaps only one with the last name 'Ramnauth'. Within the namespace of the 'Ramnauth' family, just 'Rebecca' is enough to unambiguously designate me, while within the *global* namespace (the entire world), my full name used be used.

In our C++ program, `std::cout`` is a way to say, "When I say `cout`, I actually mean the `cout` in the standard namespace." 

When we begin on more complex programs, writing `std::` in front of every object we'd like to use from the standard library becomes cumbersome. An alternative is to simple declare that we are using the standard namespace before the program begins:

``` cpp

#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main() {
	cout << "Hello World" << endl;
	return 0;
}
```

## Printing to the Console: `cout`

`cout` stands for *console output* which simply means "Print to the console." To use `cout`, type the word `cout, followed by the *output redirection operator* (`<<`). 
Whatever comes after the output redirection operator is written to the console. 

Character *strings* (a series of letters and whitespaces) should be enclosed in double quotes (`"..."`) as shown in our program (`"Hello World");

`endl` tells `cout` to put a new line (or *end* the line) after the words `Hello World`.

### Conclusion

This high-level view of the anatomy C++ program demonstrates directives, namespaces, functions, and how a program can read input and send output. 