---
# Posts need to have the `post` layout
layout: post

# The title of your post
title: Syllabus

# (Optional) Write a short (~150 characters) description of each blog post.
# This description is used to preview the page on search engines, social media, etc.
description: >
   Outlining course information, expectations, and responsibilities for CS 102

# (Optional) Link to an image that represents your blog post.
# The aspect ratio should be ~16:9.
image: /assets/img/default.jpg

# You can hide the description and/or image from the output
# (only visible to search engines) by setting:
# hide_description: true
# hide_image: true

# (Optional) Each post can have zero or more categories, and zero or more tags.
# The difference is that categories will be part of the URL, while tags will not.
# E.g. the URL of this post is <site.baseurl>/hydejack/2017/11/23/example-content/
categories: [CS 102]
tags: []
# If you want a category or tag to have its own page,
# check out `_featured_categories` and `_featured_tags` respectively.
---
Welcome to CS 102, an introduction to the fundamentals of computer programming. 
Students design, write, and debug computer programs. No prior knowledge of programming is assumed.

**When:** Monday, Wednesday 12–1:50 PM <br>
**Where:** M414 <br>
**Credits:** 4 <br>
**Prerequisites:** None

## Contact Info
**Email:** rebecca.ramnauth@my.liu.edu <br>
**Office hours:** Monday, Wednesday 9–9:50 AM, or make an appointment by email or at [https://calendly.com/ramnauth](https://calendly.com/ramnauth).  <br>
**Office location:** H-700, LIU Brooklyn

## Resources
**Website:** ramnauth@github.io — notes, schedule, assignment handouts will be posted here
**Grades** posted on [gradechamp.com](http://www.gradechamp.com/)
**Textbook:** [Zybook LIUCS102Fall2018](https://learn.zybooks.com/zybook/LIUCS102Fall2018)
1. Sign in or create an account at [learn.zybooks.com](learn.zybooks.com)
2. Enter zyBook code: LIUCS102Fall2018
3. Subscribe

## Outline 
Your grade will be computed based primarily on in- and out-class participation (50%), but also on assignments (25%), exams (10%), quizzes (5%). The remaining 10% will be distributed in your favor accordingly. The following is a list of the lecture topics; expect a homework assignment and a quiz for each topic.

1. ~~Introduction to Programming Languages > C++~~
2. ~~Variables / Assignments~~
3. ~~Branches~~
4. ~~Loops~~
5. ~~Arrays / Vectors~~
6. ~~User-Defined Functions~~
7. Objects and Classes
8. Pointers
9. Streams
10. Inheritance
11. ~~Recursion~~
12. ~~Exceptions~~
13. Templates
14. ~~Additional Material~~ <br>

Opt. Containers <br>
Opt. Searching and Sorting Algorithms

## Policies

**Plagiarism** is the use or presentation of ideas, words, or work that is not one’s own and that is not common knowledge, without granting credit to the originator. Plagiarism is a practice that is not only unacceptable, but which is to be condemned in the strongest terms possible on the basis of moral, educational and legal grounds. Under University policy, plagiarism may be punishable by a range of penalties from a failing grade in the assignment or course to dismissal from the School of Business, Public Administration and Information Sciences. All students are required to read the handbook on avoiding plagiarism by visiting [https://liucs.net/u2](https://liucs.net/u2)

**Cheating** includes, but is not limited to the following: falsification of statements or data; listing sources that have not been used; having another individual write your paper or do your assignments; writing a paper or creating work for another student to use without proper attribution; purchase of paper or research work for one’s submission as his/her own work; using written, verbal, or electronic or other sources of aid during an examination (except when expressly permitted by the instructor, depending on the nature of the examination) or knowingly providing such assistance to aid other students.

In a course with programming assignments, it is usually okay to work with and learn from other students to some extent, but what you submit in the end needs to be your own. The most reliable way to do that would be to set aside whatever code you created together, and then recreate it from scratch on your own.

**Showing up on time to class** is extremely important. If you must be absent or more than 5 minutes late, please try to notify me in advance. I will be keeping track of whether you are in class, and when you arrive. A few missed classes will not count against you, but habitual absence will significantly hurt your grade. Additionally, there will be no make-up quizzes. I do not distinguish between ‘excused’ and ‘unexcused’ absence. Unless you miss an exam due to a severe medical emergency, I don’t want to see a doctor’s note. If you do miss an exam, the make-up exam will be different – and probably not easier.

In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, including changes made by the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008, the Long Island University does not discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities. If you are a student with a documented disability/impairment (psychological, neurological, chronic medical, learning disability, sensory, physical) and require reasonable accommodations, please register with Student Support Services and provide me with an accommodation letter. Visit Sloan Building 1st floor, call 718 488 1044, or visit [http://www.liu.edu/Brooklyn/SSS](http://www.liu.edu/Brooklyn/SSS)

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) gives students control over the disclosure of their educational records. During this course you may have the opportunity to create accounts or register with certain public online services. In these cases, you need not make any personally identifying information public. You may use a pseudonym or online handle, as long as you identify yourself to the instructor.
