---
# Posts need to have the `post` layout
layout: post

# The title of your post
title: Syllabus

# (Optional) Write a short (~150 characters) description of each blog post.
# This description is used to preview the page on search engines, social media, etc.
description: >
   Outlining course information, expectations, and responsibilities for CS 101: [PDF](https://liucs.net/cs101f18/cs101f18.pdf)

# (Optional) Link to an image that represents your blog post.
# The aspect ratio should be ~16:9.
image: /assets/img/default.jpg

# You can hide the description and/or image from the output
# (only visible to search engines) by setting:
# hide_description: true
# hide_image: true

# (Optional) Each post can have zero or more categories, and zero or more tags.
# The difference is that categories will be part of the URL, while tags will not.
# E.g. the URL of this post is <site.baseurl>/hydejack/2017/11/23/example-content/
categories: [CS 101]
tags: []
# If you want a category or tag to have its own page,
# check out `_featured_categories` and `_featured_tags` respectively.
---
Welcome to CS 101, a broad overview of the main areas of study in Computer and Information Sciences. 
Topics include computer organization, information processing, algorithms, and programming. 
The main ideas behind the theory and design of Operating Systems, Databases, and Computer Networks, 
along with current views on the theory and practice of Software Engineering, and the basics of Artificial 
Intelligence are also explored. The course highlights the uses of computing systems in business, the sciences, 
and other professional fields. This course is required for all students majoring in Computer Science or 
Information Systems. It is also suitable for majors in other disciplines who want to go beyond being casual 
users of computers to gain a deeper appreciation of some of the most important computing and information 
technologies developed over the last fifty years.

**When:** Monday, 4 to 5:50 PM & Wednesday, 3 to 4:50 <br>
**Where:** M414 <br>
**Credits:** 3 <br>
**Prerequisites:** None

## Contact Info
**Instructors:** Prof. Rebecca Ramnauth (rebecca.ramnauth@my.liu.edu) & Prof. Christopher League (christopher.league@liu.edu)
**Office hours:** Monday, Wednesday 9–9:50 AM, or make an appointment by email or at [https://calendly.com/ramnauth](https://calendly.com/ramnauth).  <br>
**Office location:** H-700, LIU Brooklyn

## Resources
**Primary Website:** ramnauth@github.io <br>
**Alt. Website:** liucs.net/cs101f18 <br>
**Textbook** *(recommended, not required)*: *Computer Science Illuminated* by Dale and Lewis (6th edition, ISBN 144-967-2841, [http://amzn.to/1yksnd6](http://amzn.to/1yksnd6)). <br>

## Policies

**Plagiarism** is the use or presentation of ideas, words, or work that is not one’s own and that is not common knowledge, without granting credit to the originator. Plagiarism is a practice that is not only unacceptable, but which is to be condemned in the strongest terms possible on the basis of moral, educational and legal grounds. Under University policy, plagiarism may be punishable by a range of penalties from a failing grade in the assignment or course to dismissal from the School of Business, Public Administration and Information Sciences. All students are required to read the handbook on avoiding plagiarism by visiting [https://liucs.net/u2](https://liucs.net/u2)

**Cheating** includes, but is not limited to the following: falsification of statements or data; listing sources that have not been used; having another individual write your paper or do your assignments; writing a paper or creating work for another student to use without proper attribution; purchase of paper or research work for one’s submission as his/her own work; using written, verbal, or electronic or other sources of aid during an examination (except when expressly permitted by the instructor, depending on the nature of the examination) or knowingly providing such assistance to aid other students.

In a course with programming assignments, it is usually okay to work with and learn from other students to some extent, but what you submit in the end needs to be your own. The most reliable way to do that would be to set aside whatever code you created together, and then recreate it from scratch on your own.

**Showing up on time to class** is extremely important. If you must be absent or more than 5 minutes late, please try to notify me in advance. I will be keeping track of whether you are in class, and when you arrive. A few missed classes will not count against you, but habitual absence will significantly hurt your grade. Additionally, there will be no make-up quizzes. I do not distinguish between ‘excused’ and ‘unexcused’ absence. Unless you miss an exam due to a severe medical emergency, I don’t want to see a doctor’s note. If you do miss an exam, the make-up exam will be different – and probably not easier.

In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, including changes made by the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008, the Long Island University does not discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities. If you are a student with a documented disability/impairment (psychological, neurological, chronic medical, learning disability, sensory, physical) and require reasonable accommodations, please register with Student Support Services and provide me with an accommodation letter. Visit Sloan Building 1st floor, call 718 488 1044, or visit [http://www.liu.edu/Brooklyn/SSS](http://www.liu.edu/Brooklyn/SSS)

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) gives students control over the disclosure of their educational records. During this course you may have the opportunity to create accounts or register with certain public online services. In these cases, you need not make any personally identifying information public. You may use a pseudonym or online handle, as long as you identify yourself to the instructor.

